---
title: "Advanced Academic English Writing"
date: 2023-07-07T11:36:14+08:00
draft: false

---





#### COURSE DESCRIPTION ####    
The purpose of WAE194 is to provide students with writing experiences designed to improve their academic essay writing skills through the process of prewriting, drafting, and revising. It also strives to build confidence, fluency and grammatical correctness in students’ writing generally, and it serves as preparation for WRT100.  To accomplish these goals, students work on expanding their English competence on the sentence and paragraph levels. Specifically, they work on strategies that promote independence and self-evaluation of their own and others’ writing and produce at least two revised essays.  

#### COURSE OBJECTIVES ####
1.	Write correctly structured English sentences and paragraphs.  
2.	Write sentences and paragraphs using appropriate vocabulary that clearly conveys meaning.  
3.	Edit student’s own and others’ writing for content and grammatical accuracy.  
4.	Write cohesive paragraphs and essays.  
5.	Paraphrase on the sentence level.  

#### TEXTBOOK AND COURSE MATERIALS ####

- *Grammar and Beyond 2e Level 3*  (Cambridge University Press)                       
  
- *Better Writing Through Editing* by Peterson and Hagen (Handouts)


#### UNIT FOCUS ####
##### Module 1 Academic Integrity  
-    Syllabus 
-    Avoid plagiarism
-    Exit test rubrics and samples

##### Module 2 Expository writing  
   -   P33 definition of exposition   
      -   Brainstorming and organizing   
   -   P31 Sample reading   
       -   essay structure P48
       -   how to write with an outline   
          -   exercise: P48 & P49 (P49: write another topic sentence in parallel to sentence 3)  
          -   writing practice #1: expository paragraph writing (how has globalization changed food in China?)  

   -    P49 Write effective thesis statements  
      -    exercise: P49 & P50     

   -    P50 Connect topic sentences to thesis statements   
      -    exercise: P50   
      -    practice: connecting your own topic sentences with thesis statement     
      -    writing practice #2: write one more expository paragraph   
   -    P51 write an introductory paragraph     
      -    writing practice #3: writing an introductory paragraph    


   -    P67 Checklist for argumentative essays


##### Module 3 Summary and response  
-  Unit 12
    -  P191 summary paragraph   
    -  Handout  
       -  P136 summary; paraphrase; how are they different?   

- Practice summary paragraph writing      
    -  The Causes and Effects of Deforestation    
    -  Reading   
    -  Outlining   
    -  Writing   

-  Unit 13 response paragraph writing   
    -  P205 responding to an article  
    -  P204 practice response paragraph writing  





##### Module 4 Argumentative writing  
-   Unit 14
    -   P220 definition of argumentation   
-   Unit 16
    -   P246 argumentative essay structure
-    Unit 14   
    -   P219 Sample reading  
    -   Outline  
    -   P221 Identifying arguments and reasons  
    -   Brainstorm & organize  
    -   P218  Exercise 5.1    
    -   P221 Brainstorming and organizing   

Practice #1 writing an argumentative paragraph  
Practice # writing one more argumentative paragraph   

-  Unit 15 
    -   Language in argumentative essays  
    -   P234  connecting information   
    -   Exercise 6.1  
    -   Supporting arguments  
    -   P235 Exercise 6.2 & 6.3   

-   Unit 16   
    -    Register in Academic writing   
    -    P246 Exercise 6.1   
    -    Checklist for argumentative essays P247




